Now, in this example we want to take a
look at using Factory Bean. So it's not
that we can do pretty easily inside of
Spring Configuration. And a factory
method is something that you're going to
use for more complex object. I'm going to
adapt it to our little Hello World example. Typically in the field you're going to
have something like a database
connection or maybe a connection to the
message broker where you have some
more complex configuration and
you're going to ask a factory for that
like for a database connection. But in
this example, we're just going to adapt
out our little Hello World example and
we're going to move that configuration
into a centralized Java configuration
class and I'm going to add in a little
factory bean that's going to determine
based on a string figure out which one
we want to return back to our Spring
configuration. I'm going to show you how
we can move this all into Java
configuration and utilize a factory, a
bean factory to create other beans
inside of our Spring Context. So pretty
common thing to do and it actually can
make your configuration a little bit
nicer too. Okay I've done a little bit of
refactoring to our Dependency Injection
project and what I did is I moved the
services back to guru.springframework and I've added in a factory
class to generate the different primary
GreetingServices and what we want to do
is we're going to use this in a Spring
configuration. So I'm going to come over
here and create a New Package called
config. We'll add in a class for a
Greeting Config and now we're going to
annotate it as @Configuration. Now what
we want to do is I've added in this
GreetingService factory and it takes
in as a constructor, the GreetingRepository and the method, the factory
method is going to take in a language
string and right now it's going to
support English, German and Spanish. So
we have the three different options there
and we're going to utilize us to mimic
something that's a heavyweight.
That we're going to be using some type
of like a database connection factory or
something for. So we're going to mimic
that in our Spring configuration. So we
want to first, we need to make this
factory a Spring Bean. So we're going to
come over here and this is going
to take in the repository and now what we
want to do is return a new instance. Now
when I annotate this as a Bean, it's
going to get configured as a Spring Bean. So what this is doing is I've declared
the GreetingRepository as a parameter
for that Bean and Spring is going to
pick that up automatically and at
runtime, it's going to get injected into
my configuration method and then I'm
kind of providing a, I made a mistake there. I forgot the
new keyword so sorry that was turning me off. I was
wondering why this method was called. It's kind
of a strange error. So this is
going to be returning a new instance of
the GreetingServiceFactory and it's
going to take in the repository that was
passed into our Bean method to declare
it. Now we can utilize those to declare
other Spring Beans and what we want to
do is I'm going to get rid of this. I
know all these and we'll get that all
into our Spring configuration. Get back
to the right class here.
And I'm going to pause here and
fast-forward a little bit and type this
out so you don't have to see me type
three different methods and then
we'll go over it. Okay I fast forward a
little bit to save you some time
watching me type and what I've done is
I've added in three different bean
definitions and if you can see, I'm also
using the Primary and Profile
annotations there. So it's not
functioning just like before so I'm
coming into IntelliJ so I'm showing you
the what was deleted there.13 to 16 on
the line number so you can see that we
deleted service Primary and Profile from
the class. So that's no longer annotated
as a class and we moved it into the
configuration. So now we can see that we
have the same annotations there but this
time instead of Service, it's at Bean
because we're in a configuration class.
But the Primary annotation, Profile
annotations work just like they do on
mer clear components, they also work in
configuration classes. So now we can see
that we have set this default
English, es for Spanish and de for
German. So let's go ahead and run this
now. You can see it's going to run and we're
getting the same results and if I
come down here to the resources
application.properties and let's
uncomment that and let's change it to
Spanish and we'll run it again and watch
the Spanish being injected. Okay so
we can see that we still have the same
functionality as before and that the
Beans are getting wired up properly but
this time here we do have a little bit
cleaner configuration and this is
something that you might want to do if
you have a more complex thing and I'm
just doing this as examples but you do
get into situations where you're
annotating the classes and sometimes
it's easier and cleaner to pull that
configuration out to central class. So
you have one class to maintain for your
configuration rather
than having your annotations spread all
over a bunch of different classes. So
just a different technique as you get
more experience with spring you'll
get a feeling for which one to
use and sometimes you'll go back and go
I want to refactor this and and you move
stuff into a configuration class because
this is a little cleaner. You can see the
attention in one spot rather than being
spread across multiple classes. Alright you saw how easy it was to
move this into Java configuration and I
think at the end of the day I feel that
having this is a little bit cleaner. If
you think you're in a situation where
you might have to add more languages,
this is probably not the way you'd want
to do it but you can see how something
like this could be extendable for that
if you had more things to do like
this and extend out more and more beans
you might want to do this. But this is
just a play example to get you exposed
to different configuration options
within the Spring framework.